>> New discoveries at the
ancient site of Karahan Tepe,
the sister site of Gobekli
Tepe, may have just revealed its
hidden origins and proved an
ancient civilization is even
older than once thought.
This is "Gaia News."
Archeologists working
at the ancient site
of Karahan Tepe about 30
miles east of its sister site,
Gobekli Tepe, have found
stunning carved heads, standing
stones, buttresses, and what
appear to be snakes prominently
carved into the Earth.
The dig is being led by
the University of Istanbul
and, in their official
report, point out that
not only are these and
other Neolithic structures
the beginning of
architecture but also held
a symbolic purpose,
writing, quote,
"They also bear traces of
the conceptual transformation
of the space.
It is during this period when
the building was instilled
to mean something other than
a space to live in, whereby
the construction of the first
shelters was followed by that
of 'special structures.'"
Science and history
writer Andrew Collins
has visited and studied
Karahan Tepe since 2004.
He is currently giving
his in-depth analysis
on his YouTube channel and has
seen these special structures
up close.
>> The main structures were all
what they call subterranean.
They were cut deep
down into the bedrock.
One was a huge elliptical
enclosure, stone enclosure.
Clearly, this was a amphitheater
for ceremonial ritual activity,
and yet this connected
via a hole which
is 70 centimeters in diameter,
into a very strange room
containing 11 stone
pillars, 10 of which
are actually carved out
of the bedrock itself,
and sticking out of
the wall of this room
that I call the
Pillar Shrine, is
this elongated neck with a head
on the end of it, carved stone
head.
This confined room is
somewhere where initiates--
people looking for
connection or communication
with some kind of otherworldly
force or influence or deity
would come to do their
attunement in altered states
of consciousness.
>> What can we learn from the
detailed subterranean carvings
and the positioning
of the structures?
>> From what we can see at
Karahan Tepe and the method
of construction and design,
we're dealing with a mentality,
a mindset that is already very
sophisticated and its ideas
of what it wants to achieve.
We have found that there
are astronomical alignments
associated with these new
discoveries at Karahan Tepe.
For instance, the large
elliptical enclosure
is connected with the
so-called Pillar Shrine,
and the actual alignment
between those two
takes you to another hill
locally called Kecili Tepe.
This alignment would
take you directly
to where the bright star Deneb
in the constellation of Cygnus,
also known as the Northern
Cross, which set down,
and with the same
position as Cygnus
is the Milky Way that
would be seen rising up
into the sky at that moment.
These alignments tell us that
this focus towards the Milky
Way, the place of souls,
the place of the dead,
the place of the
afterlife, is suggesting
that they were perhaps drawing
across from that other hill
to Karahan some kind of energy
associated with the ancestors.
It suggests that we are
dealing with a culture.
They knew what
they wanted to do,
they knew what they wanted
to achieve by creating
a complex like this.
>> Gobekli Tepe,
discovered in 1994,
was considered by many
mainstream archeologists to be
a one-off that should not
have existed but did only
as an anomaly.
Andrew Collins and others
have argued for years,
this was part of an
older, lost civilization.
>> The biggest takeaways that
we can take from Karahan Tepe
and the excavations going on
there now is that Gobekli Tepe
was not simply an anomaly.
Karahan Tepe shows
us that we are
dealing with a high
culture that existed
as early as 11,500 years ago.
>> We have barely scratched
the surface at Karahan Tepe,
but what can we infer from
what we have learned so far?
>> We're on a learning
curve with Karahan Tepe now.
What's very clear
so far is that they
were working towards
some premeditated design.
I strongly believe
that it's got something
to do with understanding
what we would call
the cosmic source, the force
that manipulates nature, that
creates life, and it's something
that shamans, initiates,
aspirants would achieve
during altered states
of consciousness, during
what we'd call death trances.
And I think that they
recognized something when,
in these states, that they
needed to know more about.
And we know that the serpent is
the symbol of cosmic knowledge
and cosmic wisdom, and that
is, to me, the best evidence
so far that we have to
suggest that this is correct,
that the builders
of Karahan Tepe
were looking for the
ultimate cosmic knowledge.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.